This video we're going to talk about comments in source code.
Now comments apply to just about every programming language out there.
C++ has two kinds of comments.
But before we talk about those comments let's talk about what comments are in general comments.
Our program are readable explanations in the source code explanations notes annotations.
Anything that adds meaning to what the program is doing.
One thing that's very important to understand is that the comments never make it to the compiler in
C++.
The preprocessor strips out the comment so that the compiler never sees them may sound kind of weird
that we're reading something that the compiler is never going to see.
That's the whole point.
This is human readable.
This is for the next programmer that's coming down the pipe or for yourself when you have to go back
and modify code.
You can leave comments in the code explaining what you did and why you did C++ has two styles of comments.
The first one is of just a single line comment that I'll show you what that looks like.
It's basically two forward slashes side by side and then everything after that until the end of the
line will be ignored.
So this is a comment and the compiler will never see that comment.
That's only for your eyes only or for the eyes of programmers coming after you.
So that's a single line comment.
Typically you see these comments done like this or you may see them for example here right after this
variable declaration here for favorite number.
We could do something like slash slash.
This is where my favorite number is stored or something like that.
That's kind of a silly comment.
Now talk more about using these things wisely.
The computer is never going to see this because the preprocessor will see the comment and strip it out
and just replace it with a single space.
OK so that's one style of comment that's a single line comment.
The other kind of comment is a multi-line comment and that's a slash.
Again a forward slash followed by an asterisk and then an asterisk followed by a Ford slash.
So everything between those two elements is a comment and will be ignored.
So this could be this once spreads across lines so this could be a multiple line comment like that.
Do anything you like.
And again it's totally free form.
You can make it look however you want.
You could indent you could you could do anything you want here.
Everything in here will be ignored.
Ok so now let's took up a little bit more about these comments and what makes sense what does that make
sense.
The idea behind programming is literate programming.
Basically your code should be self-documenting.
Does that mean we don't write comments.
Well no.
So you want to be sure that what you write makes sense.
In this case here's my code.
Here's my main and that's the block of code that I've written.
This is pretty self-explanatory and I'll leave this comment in here.
I've fixed that typo here but there is an integer called favorite number.
You're outputting to the console and try a number you're reading from the console and you're printing
out some stuff.
This code doesn't need any commenting it's very very clear what it's doing.
That's not always the case.
Sometimes code is very complicated it's using some complex algorithms maybe using some really clever
efficiency tweak to make it run faster but it makes it less obvious what it's doing.
Those are good examples of where you should use comments don't comment the obvious for example right
here you don't want to say returns 0.
That's silly.
I mean I don't want to return here.
I just said it in the code.
So those kinds of comments you really don't want to use.
Also if you're adding a and b you don't want to put a comment that says adding a and b it's pretty obvious
from a plus b what you're doing.
So you really want to explain more complicated code.
You also want to keep the style of the comments consistent.
So for example I will have this line comment here which goes to the end of a line over here.
I really don't want to do this style comment
and do something like that you want to keep your style consistent.
Now the multi-line comments are often seen at the top of files so I'll do this.
And in this case code like kind of helps me out over it a bit but I'll do that so many times you'll
see code that looks like this.
You'll see a bunch of asterisks on top and then you'll see a much faster start here created with a little
header block.
Now notice I've got to be getting comment here and the end of the comment here everything in here will
be ignored but in here you'll see stuff like author
and I'll say Frank you know dates things like that copyrights license information a lot of that is very
commonly seen in a multi-line comment at the top of the source file.
Another good example of a good comment would be supposed that inside this function I'm doing some kind
of algorithm and I've tweaked the algorithm so I could do something like using a modified
version of Dijkstra's algorithm that say
to improve space efficiency or anything somethin like that.
Now the program are coming after you understand that you're using dogs just outgrow them and you've
modified it somewhat dioecious algorithm it's a fairly well understood algorithm so you've tweaked it
somehow to improve space efficiency.
Maybe in the body of that algorithm you can comment what exactly you've done.
So that's an example of a good comment.
So again don't comment.
The obvious good commenting doesn't justify bad code.
Obviously you don't want to write really bad code and then put a good comment in there saying something
silly.
One of the dangers with comments is that many times programmers use comments as version control.
So up here you'll see something like say 11 11 2017 and you'll see something like Frank fixed a bug
in something and then another program will come across the 11:13 20:17.
Maybe it's Joe and Joe added function to do something that's not a good idea.
If you want to use version and use version control use something like subversion or get don't write
your versioning here.
The problem with this is some some programmers will do it some programmers won't know this for they
won't be reflective of all the changes that actually occurred in the file.
OK so again don't you don't do this.
This is not a good idea.
Use a real version control system.
Finally if you go back and modify code make sure you look at the comments and modify the comments if
necessary.
There's nothing worse than a programmer looking at some code and seeing a comment that looks like this.
And then you look at the code and it doesn't look anything like dextrous algorithm because another programmer
changed it to something else and didn't change the comment.
So it's really important that you keep your comments and your code in sync as you go along.
OK that's pretty much it for comments in the next video will talk about the main function itself and
talk a little bit about what's going on there.